Welcome everyone to the solution for machine learning question number five So here the question is what
is the difference between a random forest versus a boosting tree algorithm.
So let's go ahead and discuss boosting trees.
So what boosting trees ended up doing is they reassign weights to samples based on the results of previous
iterations of classifications.
So what happens is you run your boosted tree one time and then the points that were hard to classify
you end up giving those some sort of assign a weight that give them a heavier weight and then you reiterate
and run it again with the heavier weights assigned to those harder to classify points.
So it's an iterative process.
So again iterative algorithm where each execution is going to be based on the previous results this
is actually quite different than a random force.
Remember that a random force applies bootstrap aggregation to train many different trees.
So this creates an ensemble of different individual decision trees.
In random forest algorithm instead of using information gain or gynie index for calculating the root
node.
What happens is the process of finding the root node and splitting the feature nodes will happen at
random.
So that's where it gets its name for us because we have many decision trees and then ran them because
these split points are actually being chosen randomly.
So those are the main differences between using a boosting tree algorithm versus a random forest algorithm.
If you want more information on those algorithms go ahead and check out the resources in the guidebook.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.